One more fancy thing.
While we're talking about fancy syntax,
we've talked about fancy syntax for
array functions, we've talked about
fancy syntax for string literals.
One more piece of fancy syntax related
to arrays and iterables more generally,
like strings too, is something
in JavaScript called spread or
the spread syntax, which is dot,
dot, dot, three dots.
And I think this came up in a question
earlier if I'm remembering, and
so hopefully whoever was asking
that earlier is still around.
So here's another neat trick.
Basically, what spread that is that it
lets us take the contents of something
like an array and spread them around.
So we take the items in the array and
spread them out like Regina George
spreading pages from the burned
book all over school in Mean Girls.
So for example, we could use this to
expand an array into another array.
So for example,
here I have a couple of arrays.
I have some old burned,
some old slang for burning somebody.
Like, you're a square, or
like that's wack from back in the 90s.
I have some new burns calling somebody
basic, dusty, or sus, what have you.
And I could make a burn book
of all the burns I know
by expanding both of these
arrays with the spread operator.
And what this does is something very
equivalent to, remember our concat method?
The concatenate two arrays?
So depending on which one
feels more comfortable,
this can be a more comfortable way to
concatenate an array onto another one,
is we can expand the array
element with the dot, dot, dot.
And what it does is essentially what
it's going to do is take the value of
this array, which is this here, and
it's going to take each thing
within the array, and it's almost
as if we had written it out with commas
in between each of those things.
So if I go back over to my console and
I run this,
we'll see that burnBook, it's basically
exactly the same as if I
had manually typed out
each of those things with
commas inside of them.
So the dot, dot, dot does that for us.
It essentially says expand this array,
spread the items of this array into
the context where I am using it, and
one of the places I can use it is
inside brackets in order to put all of
the items inside of that array
into this new array I'm creating.
Okay, so another place that we can use
this is when we're passing arguments into
a function, which is another place where
we might put values separated by commas.
And so for example,
we had our push method,
we can actually pass
multiple values in here.
And so it's not the same as
our concat version earlier
because what is the difference
between concat and push?
What does push do that concat does not do?
Anybody remember?
>> Modifies the variable
>> Modifies the,
when we say variable, we mean the?
>> Values.
>> Elements.
>> The elements in the original array.
It modifies the original array.
Push mutates the array, changes
what's inside of the original array,
concat creates a new one.
But, so anyway, so push here,
if I have an array of skills like HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript, and
I'm about to go on and
JavaScript is now in there
because you all know JavaScript.
And we wanna go on and
learn some new skills like React or
TypeScript or Node,
which is back end JavaScript,
we can call skills.push...newSkills, and
this is gonna be equivalent to calling
skills.push(React, TypeScript, Node).
So we're gonna expand all of those things.
And then, similarly remember how we can
pass in commas to our console.log and
put spaces between values.
We could use the dot, dot, dot there,
and we could log out on one line all
of the things separated by spaces
instead of logging them as an array
with those brackets around it.
So just to prove this to ourselves,
My gosh.
To prove this to ourselves,
we can run this.
Let me just do this separately, okay?
So when we do skills.push...newSkills,
it returns 6.
That's gonna be the new length
of the array that it modified.
And so
skills now has all of that stuff in it.
This is different than concat
cuz skills got changed.
And then if I wanna
console.log skills here,
I get them all printed out
on one line as opposed to if
I had logged the array
without spreading it,
it would log the array object itself.
So what this is equivalent to is
like if I did console.log("HTML",
"CSS", "JS") and so on and so forth, yeah?
So spread is a fun little piece of syntax
that y'all might also run into and
might find useful when you're like, ugh,
I wish I didn't have to loop over this
array and pull out every single element.
If you're passing in things
to either array brackets or
arguments to a function or
a method like this, you can dot, dot,
dot to just pass in all of those as if
they were with commas between them.
Spread it out.
We have done a bunch of stuff,
we have finished a project, look at us go.
We have two projects, actually.
We finished two projects,
Tic-Tac-Toe and our quiz.
And we've learned a ton of stuff
including some very fancy syntax and
lots of different ways to loop over
arrays and make decisions in our code,
in our conditionals.
We have the fancy syntax for the ternary
operator with the question mark and stuff.
And we have fancy syntax for working with
strings with our template literals, and
we have fancy syntax for
functions with our arrows.
So we have a bunch of tricks
up our sleeve now as we
continue our magical
learning journey here.